P a g e | 100 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban – J.K. Rowling
“Oh,” said Hermione softly, “we’ve missed the
www.ztcprep.com
Sorting!”
New students at Hogwarts were sorted into Houses by
trying on the Sorting Hat, which shouted out the
House they were best suited to (Gryffindor,
Ravenclaw, Hufflepuff, or Slytherin). Professor
McGonagall strode off toward her empty seat at the
staff table, and Harry and Hermione set off in the
other direction, as quietly as possible, toward the
Gryffindor table. People looked around at them as
they passed along the back of the hall, and a few of
them pointed at Harry. Had the story of his collapsing
in front of the dementor traveled that fast?
He and Hermione sat down on either side of Ron, who
had saved them seats.
“What was all that about?” he muttered to Harry.
Harry started to explain in a whisper, but at that
moment the headmaster stood up to speak, and he
broke off.
Professor Dumbledore, though very old, always gave
an impression of great energy. He had several feet of
www.ztcprep.com
long silver hair and beard, half-moon spectacles, and
an extremely crooked nose. He was often described as
the greatest wizard of the age, but that wasn’t why
Harry respected him. You couldn’t help trusting Albus
Dumbledore, and as Harry watched him beaming
around at the students, he felt really calm for the first
time since the dementor had entered the train
compartment.
“Welcome!” said Dumbledore, the candlelight
shimmering on his beard. “Welcome to another year
at Hogwarts! I have a few things to say to you all, and
as one of them is very serious, I think it best to get it
P a g e | 101 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban – J.K. Rowling
out of the way before you become befuddled by our
excellent feast. …”
Dumbledore cleared his throat and continued, “As
you will all be aware after their search of the
Hogwarts Express, our school is presently playing
host to some of the dementors of Azkaban, who are
here on Ministry of Magic business.”
www.ztcprep.com
He paused, and Harry remembered what Mr. Weasley
had said about Dumbledore not being happy with the
dementors guarding the school.
“They are stationed at every entrance to the grounds,”
Dumbledore continued, “and while they are with us, I
must make it plain that nobody is to leave school
without permission. Dementors are not to be fooled
by tricks or disguises — or even Invisibility Cloaks,”
he added blandly, and Harry and Ron glanced at each
other. “It is not in the nature of a dementor to
understand pleading or excuses. I therefore warn
each and every one of you to give them no reason to
harm you. I look to the prefects, and our new Head
Boy and Girl, to make sure that no student runs afoul
of the dementors,” he said.
Percy, who was sitting a few seats down from Harry,
puffed out his chest again and stared around
impressively. Dumbledore paused again; he looked
very seriously around the hall, and nobody moved or
made a sound.
www.ztcprep.com
“On a happier note,” he continued, “I am pleased to
welcome two new teachers to our ranks this year.
“First, Professor Lupin, who has kindly consented to
fill the post of Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher.”
P a g e | 102 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban – J.K. Rowling
There was some scattered, rather unenthusiastic
applause. Only those who had been in the
compartment on the train with Professor Lupin
clapped hard, Harry among them. Professor Lupin
looked particularly shabby next to all the other
teachers in their best robes.
“Look at Snape!” Ron hissed in Harry’s ear.
Professor Snape, the Potions master, was staring
along the staff table at Professor Lupin. It was
common knowledge that Snape wanted the Defense
Against the Dark Arts job, but even Harry, who hated
Snape, was startled at the expression twisting his
thin, sallow face. It was beyond anger: it was loathing.
Harry knew that expression only too well; it was the
look Snape wore every time he set eyes on Harry.
www.ztcprep.com
“As to our second new appointment,” Dumbledore
continued as the lukewarm applause for Professor
Lupin died away. “Well, I am sorry to tell you that
Professor Kettleburn, our Care of Magical Creatures
teacher, retired at the end of last year in order to
enjoy more time with his remaining limbs. However, I
am delighted to say that his place will be filled by
none other than Rubeus Hagrid, who has agreed to
take on this teaching job in addition to his
gamekeeping duties.”
Harry, Ron, and Hermione stared at one another,
stunned. Then they joined in with the applause,
which was tumultuous at the Gryffindor table in
particular. Harry leaned forward to see Hagrid, who
was ruby-red in the face and staring down at his
enormous hands, his wide grin hidden in the tangle of
his black beard.
P a g e | 103 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban – J.K. Rowling
“We should’ve known!” Ron roared, pounding the
table. “Who else would have assigned us a biting
www.ztcprep.com
book?”
Harry, Ron, and Hermione were the last to stop
clapping, and as Professor Dumbledore started
speaking again, they saw that Hagrid was wiping his
eyes on the tablecloth.
“Well, I think that’s everything of importance,” said
Dumbledore. “Let the feast begin!”
The golden plates and goblets before them filled
suddenly with food and drink. Harry, suddenly
ravenous, helped himself to everything he could reach
and began to eat.
It was a delicious feast; the hall echoed with talk,
laughter, and the clatter of knives and forks. Harry,
Ron, and Hermione, however, were eager for it to
finish so that they could talk to Hagrid. They knew
how much being made a teacher would mean to him.
Hagrid wasn’t a fully qualified wizard; he had been
expelled from Hogwarts in his third year for a crime
he had not committed. It had been Harry, Ron, and
Hermione who had cleared Hagrid’s name last year.
www.ztcprep.com
At long last, when the last morsels of pumpkin tart
had melted from the golden platters, Dumbledore
gave the word that it was time for them all to go to
bed, and they got their chance.
“Congratulations, Hagrid!” Hermione squealed as they
reached the teachers’ table.
“All down ter you three,” said Hagrid, wiping his
shining face on his napkin as he looked up at them.
“Can’ believe it … great man, Dumbledore … came
straight down to me hut after Professor Kettleburn
P a g e | 104 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban – J.K. Rowling
said he’d had enough. … It’s what I always wanted.
…”
Overcome with emotion, he buried his face in his
napkin, and Professor McGonagall shooed them away.
Harry, Ron, and Hermione joined the Gryffindors
streaming up the marble staircase and, very tired
now, along more corridors, up more and more stairs,
to the hidden entrance to Gryffindor Tower. A large
portrait of a fat lady in a pink dress asked them,
www.ztcprep.com
“Password?”
“Coming through, coming through!” Percy called from
behind the crowd. “The new password’s ‘Fortuna
Major’!”
“Oh no,” said Neville Longbottom sadly. He always
had trouble remembering the passwords.
Through the portrait hole and across the common
room, the girls and boys divided toward their separate
staircases. Harry climbed the spiral stair with no
thought in his head except how glad he was to be
back. They reached their familiar, circular dormitory
with its five four-poster beds, and Harry, looking
around, felt he was home at last.
P a g e | 105 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban – J.K. Rowling
www.ztcprep.com
TALONS AND TEA LEAVES
When Harry, Ron, and Hermione entered the Great
Hall for breakfast the next day, the first thing they
saw was Draco Malfoy, who seemed to be entertaining
a large group of Slytherins with a very funny story. As
they passed, Malfoy did a ridiculous impression of a
swooning fit and there was a roar of laughter.
“Ignore him,” said Hermione, who was right behind
Harry. “Just ignore him, it’s not worth it. …”
“Hey, Potter!” shrieked Pansy Parkinson, a Slytherin
girl with a face like a pug. “Potter! The dementors are
coming, Potter! Woooooooo!”
Harry dropped into a seat at the Gryffindor table, next
to George Weasley.
“New third-year course schedules,” said George,
passing them over. “What’s up with you, Harry?”
“Malfoy,” said Ron, sitting down on George’s other
side and glaring over at the Slytherin table.
P a g e | 106 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban – J.K. Rowling
George looked up in time to see Malfoy pretending to faint with terror
again.
www.ztcprep.com
“That little git,” he said calmly. “He wasn’t so cocky
last night when the dementors were down at our end
of the train. Came running into our compartment,
didn’t he, Fred?”
“Nearly wet himself,” said Fred, with a contemptuous
glance at Malfoy.
“I wasn’t too happy myself,” said George. “They’re
horrible things, those dementors. …”
“Sort of freeze your insides, don’t they?” said Fred.
“You didn’t pass out, though, did you?” said Harry in
a low voice.
“Forget it, Harry,” said George bracingly. “Dad had to
go out to Azkaban one time, remember, Fred? And he
said it was the worst place he’d ever been, he came
back all weak and shaking. … They suck the
happiness out of a place, dementors. Most of the
prisoners go mad in there.”
“Anyway, we’ll see how happy Malfoy looks after our
first Quidditch match,” said Fred. “Gryffindor versus
Slytherin, first game of the season, remember?”
www.ztcprep.com
The only time Harry and Malfoy had faced each other
in a Quidditch match, Malfoy had definitely come off
worse. Feeling slightly more cheerful, Harry helped
himself to sausages and fried tomatoes.
Hermione was examining her new schedule.
“Ooh, good, we’re starting some new subjects today,”
she said happily.
P a g e | 107 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban – J.K. Rowling
“Hermione,” said Ron, frowning as he looked over her shoulder, “they’ve
messed up your schedule. Look —
they’ve got you down for about ten subjects a day.
There isn’t enough time. ”
“I’ll manage. I’ve fixed it all with Professor
McGonagall.”
“But look,” said Ron, laughing, “see this morning?
Nine o’clock, Divination. And underneath, nine
o’clock, Muggle Studies. And” — Ron leaned closer to
the schedule, disbelieving — “look — underneath
that, Arithmancy, nine o’clock. I mean, I know you’re
good, Hermione, but no one’s that good. How’re you
supposed to be in three classes at once?”
www.ztcprep.com
“Don’t be silly,” said Hermione shortly. “Of course I
won’t be in three classes at once.”
“Well, then —”
“Pass the marmalade,” said Hermione.
“But —”
“Oh, Ron, what’s it to you if my schedule’s a bit full?”
Hermione snapped. “I told you, I’ve fixed it all with
Professor McGonagall.”
Just then, Hagrid entered the Great Hall. He was
wearing his long moleskin overcoat and was
absentmindedly swinging a dead polecat from one
enormous hand.
“All righ’?” he said eagerly, pausing on the way to the
staff table. “Yer in my firs’ ever lesson! Right after
lunch! Bin up since five gettin’ everythin’ ready. …
Hope it’s okay. … Me, a teacher … hones’ly. …”
P a g e | 108 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban – J.K. Rowling
He grinned broadly at them and headed off to the
staff table, still swinging the polecat.
“Wonder what he’s been getting ready?” said Ron, a
www.ztcprep.com
note of anxiety in his voice.
The hall was starting to empty as people headed off
toward their first lesson. Ron checked his course
schedule.
“We’d better go, look, Divination’s at the top of North
Tower. It’ll take us ten minutes to get there. …”
They finished their breakfasts hastily, said good-bye
to Fred and George, and walked back through the
hall. As they passed the Slytherin table, Malfoy did
yet another impression of a fainting fit. The shouts of
laughter followed Harry into the entrance hall.
The journey through the castle to North Tower was a
long one. Two years at Hogwarts hadn’t taught them
everything about the castle, and they had never been
inside North Tower before.
“There’s — got — to — be — a — shortcut,” Ron
panted as they climbed their seventh long staircase
and emerged on an unfamiliar landing, where there
was nothing but a large painting of a bare stretch of
grass hanging on the stone wall.
www.ztcprep.com
“I think it’s this way,” said Hermione, peering down
the empty passage to the right.
“Can’t be,” said Ron. “That’s south, look, you can see
a bit of the lake out of the window …”
Harry was watching the painting. A fat, dapple-gray
pony had just ambled onto the grass and was grazing
nonchalantly. Harry was used to the subjects of
P a g e | 109 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban – J.K. Rowling
Hogwarts paintings moving around and leaving their frames to visit one
another, but he always enjoyed
watching it. A moment later, a short, squat knight in
a suit of armor clanked into the picture after his
pony. By the look of the grass stains on his metal
knees, he had just fallen off.
“Aha!” he yelled, seeing Harry, Ron, and Hermione.
“What villains are these, that trespass upon my
private lands! Come to scorn at my fall, perchance?
Draw, you knaves, you dogs!”
They watched in astonishment as the little knight
tugged his sword out of its scabbard and began
brandishing it violently, hopping up and down in
www.ztcprep.com
rage. But the sword was too long for him; a
particularly wild swing made him overbalance, and he
landed facedown in the grass.
“Are you all right?” said Harry, moving closer to the
picture.
“Get back, you scurvy braggart! Back, you rogue!”
The knight seized his sword again and used it to push
himself back up, but the blade sank deeply into the
grass and, though he pulled with all his might, he
couldn’t get it out again. Finally, he had to flop back
down onto the grass and push up his visor to mop his
sweating face.
“Listen,” said Harry, taking advantage of the knight’s
exhaustion, “we’re looking for the North Tower. You
don’t know the way, do you?”
“A quest!” The knight’s rage seemed to vanish
instantly. He clanked to his feet and shouted, “Come
follow me, dear friends, and we shall find our goal, or
else shall perish bravely in the charge!”
P a g e | 110 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban – J.K. Rowling
www.ztcprep.com
He gave the sword another fruitless tug, tried and failed to mount the fat
pony, gave up, and cried, “On
foot then, good sirs and gentle lady! On! On!”
And he ran, clanking loudly, into the left side of the
frame and out of sight.
They hurried after him along the corridor, following
the sound of his armor. Every now and then they
spotted him running through a picture ahead.
“Be of stout heart, the worst is yet to come!” yelled the
knight, and they saw him reappear in front of an
alarmed group of women in crinolines, whose picture
hung on the wall of a narrow spiral staircase.
Puffing loudly, Harry, Ron, and Hermione climbed the
tightly spiraling steps, getting dizzier and dizzier,
until at last they heard the murmur of voices above
them and knew they had reached the classroom.
“Farewell!” cried the knight, popping his head into a
painting of some sinister-looking monks. “Farewell,
my comrades-in-arms! If ever you have need of noble
heart and steely sinew, call upon Sir Cadogan!”
“Yeah, we’ll call you,” muttered Ron as the knight
www.ztcprep.com
disappeared, “if we ever need someone mental.”
They climbed the last few steps and emerged onto a
tiny landing, where most of the class was already
assembled. There were no doors off this landing, but
Ron nudged Harry and pointed at the ceiling, where
there was a circular trapdoor with a brass plaque on
it.
“ ‘Sibyll Trelawney, Divination teacher,’ ” Harry read.
“How’re we supposed to get up there?”
